---
layout: page
title:  "OAuth"
teaser: "OAuth 2.0 is an open authorization protocol which enables applications to access each others data. For instance, a game application can access a users data in the Facebook application, or a location based application can access the user data of the Foursquare application etc."
breadcrumb: true
categories:
    - Gists
author: Bendy Zhang
---

OAuth 2.0 is an open authorization protocol which enables applications to access each others data. For instance, a game application can access a users data in the Facebook application, or a location based application can access the user data of the Foursquare application etc.

## OAuth 2.0 Authorization

When a client applications wants access to the resources of a resource owner, hosted on a resource server, the client application must first obtain an authorization grant. This text explains how such an application grant is obtained.

### Client ID, Client Secret and Redirect URI

Before a client application can request access to resources on a resource server, the client application must first register with the authorization server associated with the resource server.

The registration is typically a one-time task. Once registered, the registration remains valid, unless the client app registration is revoked.

At registration the client application is assigned a client ID and a client secret (password) by the authorization server. The client ID and secret is unique to the client application on that authorization server. If a client application registers with multiple authorization servers (e.g. both Facebook, Twitter and Google), each authorization server will issue its own unique client ID to the client application.

Whenever the client application requests access to resources stored on that same resource server, the client application needs to authenticate itself by sending along the client ID and the client secret to the autorhization server.

During the registration the client also registers a redirect URI. This redirect URI is used when a resource owner grants authorization to the client application. When a resource owner has successfully authorized the client application via the authorization server, the resource owner is redirected back to the client application, to the redirect UR

